##1. Dataset Selection Justification
    -Source and scope: BLS Monthly import price index for BEA End Use, 1999-2025
    -Access verification: Here is my link to the source [HTML_link](https://data.bls.gov/pdq/SurveyOutputServlet)
    -Relational depth: This would be really interesting to join with seasonally-adjusted Unemployment Rate table as well as the Total factor productivity for Private Business Sector table because I would like to know how/if unemployment and factor productivity have a relationship with import prices. If tariffs or prices on imports are raised, then one would think that would increase factor productivity and decrease unemployment. However, assumptions are still just a fancy guessing game.
    -Temporal characteristics: This dataset is updated monthly, and almost every month since 1982 has been reported. There was an issue in October 2025 where it was not recorded. 
    -Why this dataset: I want to know how much the price of imported goods really affects the domestic labor force. I have a personal opinion that it does but not to the degree that US lawmakers and politicians believe it does, and I would like to look at the data myself to form my own conclusion.

    ##2. Initial Problem Space
        -Domain observations: I've noticed that when I look at the graph generated by the BLS website, the data is not steady, but it's not as volatile as I thought it would be. Import price index is not as high now as it was back in early 2023, which is only slightly higher than it was in 2008.
        -Candidate problems: Predict the next spike in import prices given a range of years. Predict the import price index's trajectory for the next thirty years. Determine if there is a seasonality or subsequent pattern for price index.
        -Questions you can't yet answer: I think seasonality would be hard to predict given that import price index is determined by things other than commerce. The scope is small when looking at data like this because numbers don't always tell the whole story. I think when I add the unemployment rate table to the import index price, it will tell a bigger story.

        ##3. Architecture Characteristics Discovery
            -Candidate characteristics: 
                1. Data accuracy because it is used for many prediction analyses and even small errors can impact economic insights and financial calculations/formulas.
                2. Versioning because sometimes price indexes are revised. It would be integral to track revisions and version history so that users can reproduce reports with past data and track changes over time.
                3. Automation because if the data updates monthly then the system needs to automatically take in and validate the new data. This would reduce operation errors and ensure critical updates are reliably implemented.
                4. Scalability because other tables will need to be joined as need and usage grows especially for SQL database and querying performance.
                5. Quality control because unexpected spikes in the data could be due to reporting issues or automation that did not implement an update correctly.
            -Tensions you anticipate: I see automation and quality control conflicting with each other as well as scalability, automation, and quality control conflicting interchangeably with one another. As automation increases, some concessions may have to be made with quality control here and there, especially if scaling is happening at the same time.
            -What you don't know yet: It might matter how I join the tables, but I can't know that yet. I also feel like there might be an issue with identifying data if the foreign and secondary keys are not properly defined. Obviously but still.